.TH RHOST 8l "1 October r
.SH NAME
.B rhost
- start a 
.B ssh
session on a remote host in a new terminal window.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rhost
[
.B -c 
.I <config_file>
] [
.B -l
.I <login name>
]
[
.B -v
]
.I <hostname>
.br
or
.br
.B <hostname> 
.B -l
.I <login_name>
] [
.B -v
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rhost
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX
and Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
In the first form, using the command
.B rhost
, an X windows terminal session is started and a 
.B ssh
session to the nominated remote host 
.I <hostname>
is initiated.
.LP
In the second form
.B <host name>
is a symbolic link to the script 
.B rhost
and the
.B basename
of the command is assumed to be a valid hostname.
.LP
In the event of no host name being set, an error message is printed
on 
.I standard error
but the
.B ssh
session will attempt to connect to
.IR localhost .
.LP
Before attempting the direct connection
.B rhost
will attempt to 
.B ping
the remote host. If no route to the host is found
.B rhost
will look up the 
.I hostid
in the default
.B vn-connect
configuration file and if it appears a 
.B VPN
connection is required will invoke 
.B vn-connect
to establish a virtual network connection before proceeding.
.LP
The script is most useful when different background colours are used
for each host that is frequently accessed. Where an administrator is 
servicing multiple clients several concurrent sessions that are
readily identifiable can be displayed. The virtual terminal will
be 
.I xterm
by default but alternatives may be set in configuration file. Background and
foreground colours may also be set in the 
.B config
file provided that application supports setting colours on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-c \fI<configuration_file>\fR
Use the named configuration file in preference to the default "\fB/usr/local/etc/rhost.cf\fR"
 
.TP 5
\fB-l \fI<login_name>\fR
The 
.B ssh 
will attempt to login with the username 
.I <login_name> .
.TP 5
\fB-v\fR
Verbose mode, the script will run with the \fB-x\fR option set.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
.ft CW
rhost -l william 10.0.0.3
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Start a virtual terminal window with a
.B ssh
session to the host at 10.0.0.3. The virtual terminal background will be
yellow (see the example configuration file below), the text will use
the default "blue". Use the login name "william"
.IP
.ft CW
dougal&
.ft R
.LP
Start a virtual terminal window with a
.B ssh
session to the host "dougal" with white text on a dark blue background (see
the configuration file below). Use
the current effective user name as the login name for
.BR ssh .

.B NB.
Foreground and background colours are set in the configuration file as in the
example below.
.SH FILES
.IR rhost.cf .

.SH BUGS
The script has very little input error checking. Name resolution and
network availability is not checked. It is designed to be used
with frequently used host names where
.B ssh 
keys have already been exchanged.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR vn-connect .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
